---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: false
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: false
---

# 2.4 Linux Command Line Tutorial

***

## Introduction to Operating Systems and File Systems

Linux is a family of related operating systems.

An operating system is a type of system software that manages hardware and software resources on a computer. Common features of operating systems include:
* Process management
* Memory management
* File system
* Device drivers
* Networking
* Security
* Input-output (I/O)

A file system is an operating system abstraction of storage. A file system how files are named, stored, and retrieved from a storage device. A file, really just a bunch of bytes, is a storage object and disk abstraction that is created and destroyed on demand.

We often think of file systems as a hierarchical tree where the nodes of the tree are directories, or folders, and files.

Different operating systems use different file systems:
- Linux uses XFS, JFS, and btrfs.
- macOS uses the Hierarchical File System (HFS).
- Microsoft Windows uses File Allocation Table (FAT) and New Technology File System (NTFS).

We can compare physical and file storage as follows:

[TODO: insert table here]

## Virtual File System

There are many types of file systems. A virtual file system (VFS) allows clients applications to access different types of concrete file systems in a uniform way.

Everything in Linux is a file. In other words, everything in the system, from processes to directories to sockets, is represented by a file descriptor, or inode, which is how the operating system recognizes files. Even devices are represented by file-like objects, and they can be found under `/dev`.

Linux is powerful, flexible, and free, and it supports many file systems. However, it has a steep learning curve. 

## Linux File Structure

Linux is 

[TODO: insert image]
 
## Navigating Linux 
### Printing Information
The present working directory is the directory we are current in. We can view the present working directory with `pwd`:

[TODO: insert CLI-esque thing here]

We can use the `ls` command to list the files and directories that exist in a directory.

[TODO: insert image]

By adding the `` flag, we can TODO.

The `tree` command TODO.

### Paths
Linux commands are also files. For example, the `ls` command is stored at `/bin/ls`. However, we can execute `ls` in any folder. This is because of paths.

A path is a hierarchical representation of the location, or address, of a file or directory within the file system's structure. TODO.

## Managing Folders and Files

## Searching for Information

## Networking

## Scripting and Software

#### Up Next: [2.5 Advanced Linux Command Line Tutorial](2.5-advanced-linux-command-line-tutorial.md)

***

[Home](https://sophiecchen.gitbook.io/sophie-chen) ⋅ [Work](https://sophiecchen.gitbook.io/sophie-chen/work) ⋅ [Thoughts](https://sophiecchen.gitbook.io/sophie-chen/thoughts)